---
title: "Unit 4: Impact of Computing"
metaTitle: "Unit 4: Impact of Computing"
order: 0
---

## Overview

In Unit 4, students will learn about the Impact of Computing. Students will explore both the beneficial and harmful effects of computing innovations and examine if those consequences are intended or unintended. Students learn about crowdsourcing and how it affects the development of a solution. They will also explore the impacts of the digital divide, computing bias, and bias in artificial intelligence on individuals and communities. They will also learn about open source software and evaluate the use of computing based on legal and ethical concerns. Students will also learn about safe computing practices, including cryptography and authentication, and examine privacy concerns with our ever connected world. Students will finish the unit with a debate.

The questions students will explore in this unit include:

* What app or computer software do you use most often and would have a hard time going without? How does this software solve a problem for you or benefit you?
* Are innovators responsible for the harmful effects of their computing innovations, even if those effects were unintentional? Why or why not?
* What data are generated by smart phones, and what are they being used for?

## Estimated Time

13-15 days (45-50 minute classes)

## Computational Thinking Practices

[Computational Solution Design](https://apcentral.collegeboard.org/pdf/ap-computer-science-principles-course-and-exam-description.pdf#page=23)

* 1.C Explain how collaboration affects the development of a solution.

[Computing Innovations](https://apcentral.collegeboard.org/pdf/ap-computer-science-principles-course-and-exam-description.pdf#page=23)

* 5.C Describe the impact of a computing innovation.
* 5.D Describe the impact of gathering data.
* 5.E Evaluate the use of computing based on legal and ethical factors.

## Big Ideas

[Big Idea 5: Impact of Computing (IOC)](https://apcentral.collegeboard.org/pdf/ap-computer-science-principles-course-and-exam-description.pdf#page=118)

Computers and computing have revolutionized our lives. To use computing safely and responsibly, we need to be aware of privacy, security, and ethical issues. As programmers, we need to understand how our programs will be used and be responsible for the consequences. As computer users, we need to understand how to protect ourselves and our privacy when using a computer.

## Enduring Understandings

* [IOC-1](https://apcentral.collegeboard.org/pdf/ap-computer-science-principles-course-and-exam-description.pdf#page=121) While computing innovations are typically designed to achieve a specific purpose, they may have unintended consequences.
* [IOC-2](https://apcentral.collegeboard.org/pdf/ap-computer-science-principles-course-and-exam-description.pdf#page=128) The use of computing innovations may involve risks to personal safety and identity.

## Projects and Major Assessments

* Debate
* Impact of Computing bi-weekly report
* Reflections on learning outcomes for the unit

## Materials Needed

* Unit 4 Educator PowerPoint decks
* Unit 4 videos
* Unit 4 Student Activities and Homework Assignments

