---
title: "Outline"
metaTitle: "Units: Outline of course content"
order: 1
---

In **Unit 1**, students establish a classroom community by creating group norms and beginning to get to know each other as peers. Students receive introductory materials regarding what computer science is, the principles of computational thinking, what students can expect to learn in AP Computer Science Principles, and how they will be assessed throughout the course and in the AP Computer Science Principles exam. Students then work together to complete a team challenge and establish teamwork principles for their future collaborative work. Additionally, as an ice breaker activity, students create a sprite in MakeCode Arcade that represents who they are. The unit ends with students creating their first games in MakeCode Arcade and comparing the differences and similarities of the games they create. **(CRD, AAP, IOC)**

In **Unit 2**, students learn about computing systems and networks. Students learn how computers work, how the Internet works, the difference between the Internet and the World Wide Web, how data is sent through the Internet via packets, and what fault-tolerant systems are. Additionally, students learn about parallel and distributed computing, comparing the solutions, determining the efficiencies of solutions, and describing the benefits and challenges of parallel and distributed computing. Students then take the knowledge they learn and create a static webpage teaching someone else about a component of computing systems and networks. **(CSN, IOC, CRD)**

In **Unit 3,** students are introduced to programming concepts while using Microsoft MakeCode Arcade. Students learn the three types of algorithm implementations: sequencing, selection, and iteration. Students develop an understanding of programming concepts such as algorithms, program flow, events, variables (sprites, integers, strings, and Booleans), conditional statements, random, loops, projectiles, and text-based programming. Students apply computational thinking practices (i.e. iterative design, debugging) to their work throughout the unit. Students also explore practice tracking the path of a robot according to an algorithm and practice code tracing that utilizes sequencing, selection, and iteration. The unit culminates with students implementing what they learned to create a program that incorporates all three algorithm implementations (sequencing, selection, and iteration) and either solves a problem or expresses creativity through game development. **(CRD, DAT, AAP)**

In **Unit 4**, students learn about the impact of computing. Students explore both the beneficial and harmful effects of computing innovations and examine if those consequences are intended or unintended. Students learn about crowdsourcing and how it affects the development of a solution. They also explore the impacts of the digital divide, computing bias, and bias in artificial intelligence on individuals and communities. They also learn about open source software (OSS) and evaluate the use of computing based on legal and ethical concerns. Students also learn about safe computing practices, including cryptography and authentication, and examine privacy concerns with our ever-connected world. Students finish the unit with a debate. **(IOC, CRD)**

In **Unit 5**, students deepen their understanding of basic programming concepts learned in **Unit 3** (algorithms, events, loops, variables) with an emphasis on creating and writing code that is efficient, reusable, and easy to understand. Students also learn more algorithmic and programming concepts such as: functions, parameters, return values, logic expressions, complex conditionals, and arrays. They also learn game development concepts such as: tile maps, multiplayer games, and game extensions. Students also learn how to use GitHub to collaborate with another student to write programs collaboratively. Students create retro-style arcade games to write and call functions, use complex conditionals, and store and access data in arrays. In addition to creating the game, students respond to the same writing prompts required in the Create Performance Task to better prepare them for the CPT. The unit culminates with the creation of a game that students design with a partner. When students complete the unit project, they will answer the question: "Can computers solve every problem?" **(CRD, AAP)**

In an optional activity, students can also complete a Mock Create Performance Task to prepare for the CPT that they will need to create and complete for their exam.

In **Unit 6**, students learn how computers handle data and how students can use data to solve problems. Students learn about the data science process and practice this process by completing a research topic of their choosing, analyzing the data they collect through a survey, and creating an infographic capturing their findings. Additionally, students learn how data are processed to learn something new. Students also gain a deep understanding of how information is stored on a computer in binary and seamlessly translated into what is seen on the screen or heard through speakers. **(DAT, IOC)**

In **Unit 7**, students complete the Create Performance Task that must be completed in the spring for their exam. Students are provided a minimum of 12 hours of class time for completion of the Create Performance Tasks.

In **Unit 8**, students review for the AP Exam.

In **Unit 9** (an optional **WE Unit**), students learn about the WE Pillars of Impact and the United Nation's Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). They investigate one SDG Goal in depth and design a programming-based project that addresses a facet of the Goal. 